README.md, before:

# ChainRulesTestUtils.jl

[![CI](https://github.com/JuliaDiff/ChainRulesTestUtils.jl/workflows/CI/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/JuliaDiff/ChainRulesTestUtils.jl/actions?query=workflow%3ACI)
[![Code Style: Blue](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-blue-4495d1.svg)](https://github.com/invenia/BlueStyle)
[![ColPrac: Contributor's Guide on Collaborative Practices for Community Packages](https://img.shields.io/badge/ColPrac-Contributor's%20Guide-blueviolet)](https://github.com/SciML/ColPrac)
[![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/235620344.svg)](https://zenodo.org/badge/latestdoi/235620344)


[![](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-main-blue.svg)](https://JuliaDiff.github.io/ChainRulesTestUtils.jl/dev)
[![](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-stable-blue.svg)](https://JuliaDiff.github.io/ChainRulesTestUtils.jl/stable)

> Collection of utilities for testing forward- and reverse-mode AD sensitivities.

`ChainRulesTestUtils.jl` is designed to help you test `ChainRulesCore.frule` and `ChainRulesCore.rrule` methods.
The main entry points are `ChainRulesTestUtils.frule_test`, `ChainRulesTestUtils.rrule_test`, and `ChainRulesTestUtils.test_scalar`
Currently this is done via testing the rules against numerical differentiation (using [`FiniteDifferences.jl`](https://github.com/JuliaDiff/FiniteDifferences.jl)).

`ChainRulesTestUtils.jl` is separate from [`ChainRulesCore.jl`](https://github.com/JuliaDiff/ChainRulesCore.jl) so that it can be a test-only dependency, allowing it to have potentially heavy dependencies, while keeping `ChainRulesCore.jl` as light-weight as possible.

Commit message:

add notice about no primary maintainer

README.md, after:

# ChainRulesTestUtils.jl

[![CI](https://github.com/JuliaDiff/ChainRulesTestUtils.jl/workflows/CI/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/JuliaDiff/ChainRulesTestUtils.jl/actions?query=workflow%3ACI)
[![Code Style: Blue](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-blue-4495d1.svg)](https://github.com/invenia/BlueStyle)
[![ColPrac: Contributor's Guide on Collaborative Practices for Community Packages](https://img.shields.io/badge/ColPrac-Contributor's%20Guide-blueviolet)](https://github.com/SciML/ColPrac)
[![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/235620344.svg)](https://zenodo.org/badge/latestdoi/235620344)


[![](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-main-blue.svg)](https://JuliaDiff.github.io/ChainRulesTestUtils.jl/dev)
[![](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-stable-blue.svg)](https://JuliaDiff.github.io/ChainRulesTestUtils.jl/stable)


| ⚠️ The ChainRules project is currently seeking a new primary maintainer ⚠️                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| See this [Discourse thread](https://discourse.julialang.org/t/chainrules-project-looking-for-a-new-primary-maintainer/115636). We currently have many secondary maintainers and contributors with commit rights, but noone who has committed to leading the efforts. Until this is resolved PRs and issues may not recieve timely response. |

> Collection of utilities for testing forward- and reverse-mode AD sensitivities.

`ChainRulesTestUtils.jl` is designed to help you test `ChainRulesCore.frule` and `ChainRulesCore.rrule` methods.
The main entry points are `ChainRulesTestUtils.frule_test`, `ChainRulesTestUtils.rrule_test`, and `ChainRulesTestUtils.test_scalar`
Currently this is done via testing the rules against numerical differentiation (using [`FiniteDifferences.jl`](https://github.com/JuliaDiff/FiniteDifferences.jl)).

`ChainRulesTestUtils.jl` is separate from [`ChainRulesCore.jl`](https://github.com/JuliaDiff/ChainRulesCore.jl) so that it can be a test-only dependency, allowing it to have potentially heavy dependencies, while keeping `ChainRulesCore.jl` as light-weight as possible.
